---

February 15, 2016

Our fear of the Other Side is killing our creative evolution
It does until you realize what happens to everyone else and how you start to feel about them. We begin to create something called "The Other Side" - people who "eat Oreos wrong," people who "actually think Trump could be a successful president," or people who "actually think more guns will prevent more shootings." The Other Side represents everything that you disagree with - the fodder for watercooler jokes, viral internet memes, and onerous internet comment threads. In math, the axiom of truth states that things are either true or false. To us, what we believe is truth. The Other Side's beliefs are false.
When we encounter one of these people from The Other Side and we're forced to interact, we sharpen our wits and go to battle. With enough coaxing, we must be able to prove them wrong. If it doesn't seem likely we'll win, we dismiss the very premise - they're one of "those people."For creatives, pushing an Other Side agenda - where things are right or wrong, where it's us versus them - hinders the very skills that clients hire us for. We are paid to solve problems and identify opportunities. To be a good problem solver, we must not allow our own ethos to define our approach. Embracing things we don't believe is the only way to succeed.
MAKE THE AUDIENCE REALITY YOUR OWN.
Undoubtedly, we will encounter audiences that don't make much sense to us, or whose existence might even offend us. American middle class tweens who spend over 5 hours a day on Snapchat are not in my group of friends. But if that is our client's audience, I'm going to make their reality my reality. The challenges these tweens face might seem flippant in the context of climate change. But to them, a bullying Instagram comment is a real struggle. If you allow yourself to put them in The Other Side, allow yourself to judge them for this, and invalidate their reality, you will never be able to speak to them. Judgment is the antithesis to empathy. To embody the audience, we must remove our judgment and empathize with their reality.
DIVERSIFY YOUR THINK TANK.
Creative agencies tend to attract aspirational, big picture thinkers who use emotion and strong intuition to convince. We use our power of influence to sell our ideas - first to our clients then to our clients' audiences. I am in that tribe. At eROI, we place performance at our core, which means we track everything we do to prove whether our creative works. To make this happen, we hire performance analysts who use data to support or refute every decision, no matter how large or small.Inherently, these two groups solve problems in very different ways: analytical versus conceptual, in details versus broad strokes. Meetings can become a warzone for "The Other Side." Numbers become weapons to kill creative.
"You're missing the big picture" becomes a death threat.Allowing these meetings to become divisive takes away something very valuable. The Power of Diversity. It's hard to do when someone is stabbing your creative baby with sharp area chart. But if we take a second to put aside our egos, and accept that our process isn't the only way, we might be able to approach our problem from an unfamiliar angle. We might see possibilities unseen. Someone who sees the world differently will lead us there.
INVITE THE OTHER SIDE IN.
One of the best representations of parlay with "The Other Side" was on The West Wing, when a Democratic Administration hired a couple Republicans. It made for some good TV because the Democrats often could not handle the Republican approach. Simply, they care about different things. Inviting the Republicans into the White House did something powerful - it put a face to the other side. To hear somebody passionately defend why they believe something. Their decision is driven by their ethos, just like you yours - they just arrive somewhere else after that process.Surrounding ourselves with people who think like us, who want the same things as us, who are going to agree with us, will always make for an amicable environment. You'll never get into a heated discussion or have to defend yourself. But what does that do to us?Diversification is what allows for evolution. Differences are what spark change, and thus allow for continual adaptation of our species. Humans haven't physically evolved much in few thousand years, so what's left is social evolution. If we allow the world to become a place where we eradicate people who think differently, a genocide of those who are ethically different, we'll stop evolving creatively. Let's not let that happen.
Creative agencies are intended to foster new ideas. If we do our job right, we can do more than just sell things. We can help to incubate social change by encouraging tolerance; show how similar (rather than different) a non-traditional relationship is to a traditional one. We can expose people to things they might not otherwise see; bring the mysteries of the ocean to a child living in a landlocked country. Most importantly, through our work, we can provide an understanding to people that they might not otherwise possess. To effect this kind of change, we must first start within ourselves and then within our agencies.
Let's invite a bit of controversy. Let's really listen to feedback that we might not initially agree with or even understand. Let's embrace and understand The Other Side. It'll make us all better creatives.


---

Originally published at eROI.com